augmentos_docs/docs/reference/index.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: SDK Reference
---

# AugmentOS SDK Reference

Welcome to the reference for the AugmentOS SDK. This section provides detailed information about all classes, interfaces, types, and enums available in the `@augmentos/sdk` package.

## Overview

The AugmentOS SDK is organized into several main components:

- **Primary Classes**: Core classes like [`TpaServer`](/reference/tpa-server) and [`TpaSession`](/reference/tpa-session) that serve as the main entry points for TPA development
- **Manager Classes**: Component classes like [`EventManager`](/reference/managers/event-manager) and [`LayoutManager`](/reference/managers/layout-manager) that handle specific functionalities
- **Enums**: Enumeration types that define constants and options throughout the SDK
- **Interfaces**: Type definitions for configuration objects, events, layouts, and messages
- **Utilities**: Helper functions and utility classes

## How to Use This Reference

This reference is organized by component category. If you're looking for:

- How to create a TPA server, see the [TpaServer](/reference/tpa-server)
- Event handling functionality, see the [`EventManager`](/reference/managers/event-manager)
- UI display capabilities, see the [`LayoutManager`](/reference/managers/layout-manager)
- Available event types, see the [Event Types](/reference/interfaces/event-types)
- Layout options, see the [Layout Types](/reference/interfaces/layout-types)
- Configuration interfaces, see the [Config Types](/reference/interfaces/config-types)
- Webhook interfaces, see the [Webhook Types](/reference/interfaces/webhook-types)
- Message interfaces, see the [Message Types](/reference/interfaces/message-types)
- Token utilities, see the [Token Utilities](/reference/token-utils)
- Resource management and utility functions, see the [Utilities](/reference/utilities)

For practical implementation examples, refer to our [Quickstart Guide](/quickstart) and [Core Concepts](/core-concepts) sections.

Commit message:

update docs for webview auth

augmentos_docs/docs/reference/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: SDK Reference
---

# AugmentOS SDK Reference

Welcome to the reference for the AugmentOS SDK. This section provides detailed information about all classes, interfaces, types, and enums available in the `@augmentos/sdk` package.

## Overview

The AugmentOS SDK is organized into several main components:

- **Primary Classes**: Core classes like [`TpaServer`](/reference/tpa-server) and [`TpaSession`](/reference/tpa-session) that serve as the main entry points for TPA development
- **Manager Classes**: Component classes like [`EventManager`](/reference/managers/event-manager) and [`LayoutManager`](/reference/managers/layout-manager) that handle specific functionalities
- **Authentication**: Features for user authentication like [`Webview Authentication`](/reference/webview-auth) for in-app webviews
- **Enums**: Enumeration types that define constants and options throughout the SDK
- **Interfaces**: Type definitions for configuration objects, events, layouts, and messages
- **Utilities**: Helper functions and utility classes

## How to Use This Reference

This reference is organized by component category. If you're looking for:

- How to create a TPA server, see the [TpaServer](/reference/tpa-server)
- Event handling functionality, see the [`EventManager`](/reference/managers/event-manager)
- UI display capabilities, see the [`LayoutManager`](/reference/managers/layout-manager)
- User authentication in webviews, see the [Webview Authentication](/reference/webview-auth)
- Available event types, see the [Event Types](/reference/interfaces/event-types)
- Layout options, see the [Layout Types](/reference/interfaces/layout-types)
- Configuration interfaces, see the [Config Types](/reference/interfaces/config-types)
- Webhook interfaces, see the [Webhook Types](/reference/interfaces/webhook-types)
- Message interfaces, see the [Message Types](/reference/interfaces/message-types)
- Token utilities, see the [Token Utilities](/reference/token-utils)
- Resource management and utility functions, see the [Utilities](/reference/utilities)

For practical implementation examples, refer to our [Quickstart Guide](/quickstart) and [Core Concepts](/core-concepts) sections.
